## The text of the assessments

## Impact - 2.
This is an admirable project but looks more like a charitable/research one. The most important thing, imo, was missed in this proposal. Do these homeless people have a mobile phone or computer which can connect to the internet and make use of the Cardano online platforms such as Ideascale? Do these people have regular access to internet? And finally, why was no work down to identify how blockchain can help these people (eg. generate a consistent income (app for odd jobs), find free lodging, find free food (restaurant app signaling leftover food)) prior to submitting proposal? I think that the $20,000 are better spent on any of the things mentioned above which would make a real difference in their lives. I struggle to see how setting meetings and publishing a report discussing views of society will help these people. In my opinion, not enough ground work has been done and proposal is not able to identify whether the blockchain can help these people.  The creation of a real and long lasting Cardano Homeless community is greatly uncertain. I would suggest that contact with entities dealing with homeless community be made in advance of publishing proposal and made part of the team, especially when proposer declare to have existing ties with these communities. A proposal in fund 7 challenge setting already exists to evaluate whether the community would like to set money aside for charity purposes. If that is accepted, funding can be applied under that challenge.

## Feasibility – 2.
Both proposals are experienced with homelessness and working with homeless communities (amongst others). They declare they already have ties to communities in Manchester. So, I do not understand why at least 1 representative from any of these communities was not consulted to check interest in the proposed project. Bringing a representative from the community and adding him to proposal team on Ideascale shows commitment. Besides, I am sure that this person could have shed more light on the situation and the chance of the proposal being successful. Lack of identification of motivation for homeless people to make part of Cardano was also not listed. Unless there are incentives for the people to on board and stay, they have no reason to do so. The aforementioned shows lack of planning which heavily undermines the success chances of the project to form a Homeless Cardano Community. The proposal seems to be more of funding for a research paper paying homeless people to share their thought and advance the research.  

## Auditability – 2.
Goals of proposal:
-Meetings with homeless people explaining about blockchain
-Compile and publish a report about the findings
It is unclear how these will result in challenge goals of creating a Cardano community Hub. It is hard to audit the success of the proposal especially since retention of any initial  participants is not clear.  On continuation after funding exhaustion proposal states; "empowering participants to take ownership, so that when funding ends, participants have the tools to continue for themselves.". It is unclear how this will be done or what tools will be given knowing that these people are homeless and would rather spend any money on food, clothing or shelter. 


“questions to ask” when deciding whether to challenge (NB this is not a definitive list of the grounds on which we can challenge – it’s just guidance)
•	Is the review given from a biased perspective? 
•	Is it clear that the proposal was not read through by the community advisor? 
•	Is it clear that the selection criteria and review guidelines were not applied or understood by the community advisor? Does the score align with the rationale? 
•	Does review lack clear articulation of the rationale for the assessment in a constructive way? 
•	Does review comply with our community conduct guidelines? 


## My draft explanation

We would like to challenge this assessment from z_assessor_281 on the grounds that this CA has not fully read the proposal. They have a couple of issues of concern; but instead of reading what the proposal actually says about those, they are relying on their own mistaken assumptions and their bias about homeless people. Further, they are not assessing the proposal on its own merits, but on how far it conforms with their own ideas for a proposal to work with the homeless community.

Their low score for “impact” seems to rest largely on their idea that homeless people do not have access to the Internet, so would be unable to engage with Cardano. However, our proposal states upfront that we will work “through in-person workshops and online sessions”, and refers several times to using online engagement (e.g. in our risk assessment).; and our supporting documentation even includes an example of an actual digital engagement project with homeless people. All this indicates clearly that in our UK context, homeless people *do* generally have Internet access. We also explain that both proposers have lived experience of homelessness; so it’s a reasonable assumption that we know whether or not our target community has Internet access or not. All this should be ample information to the CA to indicate that they have an incorrect assumption, and that they should not base their assessment on this.  The CA might be from a country where homelessness is not like this, of course  – but the proposal is clear that it’s taking place in the UK, so if this is the case, then the CA should read the proposal to find out what the situation is where the project is happening. But it is also possible that the CA *is* from a country  like the UK, where most homeless  people have Internet access, and the CA might actually just employing a biased viewpoint which is actually pretty common in work around homelessness in developed countries. Often, people do make a prejudiced assumption either that homeless people do not have phones, or that if they do, they ought not to: this article https://invisiblepeople.tv/why-do-some-homeless-people-have-cell-phones/  addresses this issue directly, and explains that it is a common prejudice. Although it’s from a US perspective, the same negative assumptions are made in much of Europe too. It seems at least possible that the CA is simply employing this common bias about homeless people; especially given that if they had read the proposal, these mistaken assumptions would have been corrected.

Further suggestions that the CA has not read the proposal properly include the fact that they repeatedly dismisses the proposal as “charitable” (there is nothing in it that refers to charity,  a charitable approach, charitable aims,  a charity-based way of working, etc, so this seems to reflect a bias on the part of the CA that work with the homeless community cannot possibly be conducted on an equal, rights-based basis, but must of necessity be “charity”); the fact that they suggest openly that we are “paying” homeless people to take part (we are offering expenses to participants. The budget amount given for this is $4,000; for 10 people over 15 sessions, this amounts to under $25 per person per session, which it would be hard to construe as “paying people”); and their question “why was no work down to identify how blockchain can help these people”, when the proposal is very clear that our approach is to enable homeless people themselves to explore whether blockchain can help them, and to define their own solutions. If the CA had read the proposal fully, they would have known this and could have engaged with it if they wished.

The CA then goes on to say that they rate our proposal low on the grounds that they have their own ideas for a proposal to work with homeless people (developing an app to tell people where to get odd jobs and free food), which they feel is a better proposal and would be a better use of the funding. Leaving aside any discussion of whether that actually *is* a good idea or would work in our UK context, this cannot be a valid reason to assess a proposal negatively – a CA needs to assess a proposal on its own merits, not on how far it matches his/her own idea for a proposal on the same issue. If this CA has an idea for a proposal to work with homeless people, great, they should submit it; but they can’t mark someone else’s idea down because it’s not the same as theirs. That amounts to bias.
Further, the CA’s suggested proposals (which involve going to a group of homeless people with a predetermined solution) is further evidence that they have not read our proposal fully or engaged with our fundamental point that homeless people should have the chance to identify their *own* solutions to problems. The CA might disagree with us on this, and might believe it is better to impose solutions;  but if that is the case, they need to engage with this issue and give a rationale for why they disagree with our approach on empowering people. This could, again, be a symptom of bias – it is very common for people who have never been homeless to believe that homeless people do not have any valid ideas, and that they need people to decide solutions for them. Together with the rest of this CA’s approach, and their language (repeatedly referring to “these people” has quite a sneering tone – it is not a phrase I could imagine someone using to describe people they respect), there is a strong suggestion that they are operating out of bias against homeless people and against  inclusive solutions.

Finally, on Auditability, the CA has given a low score on the grounds that the project’s goals are to have some meetings and write a report. They seem not to have read our explanation of what the project will do, or our measures of success, where we explain that participants will produce some kind of event or output, led and decided by them, which will be the main focus of the project. Other CAs who assessed the project do not seem to have any problem spotting this, so it suggests that this CA hasn’t read properly or fully. He has clearly read parts of the proposal; but a CA needs to read the whole thing in order to assess it. And apart from that issue – the CA’s rationale in this section has nothing to do with how auditable the project is – it’s just more on how they feel that the project does not help the challenge goals and we should be working in a different way. It seems this might be a bias that they personally have on how to work with marginalised communities, and that it is wrong to work on an equal basis or to allow them to define their own solutions.



